Release Notes for Version 1.42

A routine was added for projecting a Label onto a given plane;
an ambiguity in the three-dimensional scale routine was resolved. 
An inside(path p, path q, pen fillrule=currentpen) routine was added to
determine if one path is strictly within another. Optional arrows were
added to the slopefield routines. The movie function now generates
multipage PDF animations when format="pdf" and global=true; a fit argument
was added to support an optional filled bounding box for each movie frame.
Casts were added between the hsv structure and pens. Bad casts from TeX
bidirectional pipe are now caught. In inline latex mode, TeX headers are
now output only when needed. A bug in the cancellation of text addition in
xasy was fixed. The sticky bit is no longer set when creating the ~/.asy
directory. The documentation and FAQ were updated.
The dot(real[] a, real[] b) routine now returns the dot product of the
vectors a and b; this introduced a backwards incompatibility:
dot(x,y) should now be replaced with dot(pairs(x,y)).

Release Notes for Version 1.41

Python-style array slices were added. The array virtual field A.keys
returns the indices of initialized entries. The concat routine can now
take an arbitrary number of arguments. The write functions now output
nothing for uninitialized values instead of producing an error. A bounding
path is stored in the object structure to allow connections to
noncardinal boundary points. The buildcycle algorithm was improved.
The expression dir(E) is a synonym for E. The visibility of unsplit solid
slices is now properly resolved. A drawpen argument was added to FillDraw.
The uniform(real a, real b, int n) function returns a uniform partition of
[a,b] into n subintervals. Complex exp, log, sin, and cos functions were
added. An interface to the internal adaptive simpson integration routine
was added. History lines are now stored immediately after input (as well
at exit, after stifling). Support for the HSV colorspace was added.
The dependence of non-PDF animations on the animate.sty package was removed by
renaming animate.asy to animation.asy (PDF animations still need to import
animate.asy). Transparency groups are now respected by xasy.
TeX diagnostics were improved. An obsolete function for drawing boxes on
pictures was removed in favour of draw(Label,box).

Release Notes for Version 1.40

Hatch widths for PDF output were fixed by disabling dynamic line width
adjustment. A nurb-related bug in solid shading was also fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.39

In the animate module, a constructor bug was fixed and the temporary
multipage pdf movie file is deleted by default.

Release Notes for Version 1.38

For perspective projection, nonuniform rational B-splines (NURBS) are now
approximated by adding additional control points to Bezier curves.
Inline PDF movies can be generated directly within LaTeX files (requires
animate package, version 2007/11/30 or later). SimpleHead, HookHead, and
TeXHead (Computer Modern) arrow styles were added. FillDraw is
automatically reduced to Draw for noncyclic paths. Empty clipping bounding
boxes were fixed. The xasy diagnostic Console should now work reliably on
all platforms. Graph and interpolation array length diagnostics were
improved. The axes routines now take optional xlabel, ylabel, and zlabel
arguments defaulting to empty strings. The autoformat axes tick label
routines now try to add an extra digit of precision. Pen arguments were
added to the flowchart block routines. A path&cycle operator was added.
The read1, read2, and read3 routines now affect only the current operation.
A -c (command) option and exit() command were implemented. Ambiguous
expressions are now resolved by interactiveWrite (with a warning). A patch
is included for fixing problems with the Asymptote backend for pstoedit-3.45.

Release Notes for Version 1.37

The speed and useability of the graphical user interface has been greatly
improved, including full transparency support under MSWindows.
The intersections routine was fixed, and an optional fuzz parameter was 
added. A bug in the arrow routines was fixed. The 2D graph routines were
improved when autoscaling is disabled, secondary axis bugs were fixed,
and the automatic logarithmic axis coverage routine was re-enabled.
Degenerate 3D reference vectors are now handled and the default 3D
tick directions were improved. The array returned by intersections is now
automatically sorted. A patch is applied to avoid out-of-memory
segmentation faults with gc-7.0. A history(int n=1) function can be used to
return the interactive history. Automatic semicolons are now added to the
history. Locale bugs were fixed. A string[] split function was added.
Installation, uninstallation, and diagnostics under MSWindows were
improved. A marker dot routine was added. The output(s,update=true)
function was fixed. Configure now uses a system version of Boehm GC if the
recommended local version isn't present.

Release Notes for Version 1.36

Recently introduced bugs in the tex(), postscript(), gsave(), and grestore()
commands were fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.35

A hang in testing for the intersection of nearly identical paths in
solids.asy was fixed. The numeric formatting of setdash arguments was fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.34

An innovative graphical front end to Asymptote (xasy) has been developed.
Clipping of labels is done within a picture environment to avoid unwanted
page breaks. The default LaTeX font is now package-dependent. The syntax
was generalized to allow expressions such as (x). Comments are now
supported when reading strings in csv mode. Nesting capacity overflows
in arctime were fixed. The autoscaling of graphs for close minimum and
maximum values was improved, the default tick format is automatically
adjusted to make tick labels unique, and a general trailingzero format
string was added. Improved, robust versions of intersect and
intersectionpoints were implemented (based on a new routine
intersections). A permissions bug was fixed. A filltype argument was added
to the dot routines. Printer stack use was optimized by pruning unneeded
gsave/grestore commands. Temporary EPS files are now removed in inline PDF
mode. A discussion of the 3D generalization of Hobby's algorithm used in
Asymptote was added (intro.asy).

Release Notes for Version 1.33

Routines to find the 3D and projected 2D bounding boxes of Bezier surfaces
were added to the surface module, along with the standard teapot example.
Extended for loops were documented. The page numbering of slide
presentations with stepping enabled was fixed. The int type is now a long
long type (typically a 64-bit integer).  Support for reading and writing
64-bit integers in binary and XDR modes and large file support were added.
Input files are now opened in input-only mode. Multiple invocations 
of labelpath now work. A projection bug in the grid3 module was fixed.
The search path order was changed: directories specified by the dir
configuration variable are now examined before the .asy subdirectory in the
user's home directory. User configuration files are ignored during
installation. Some bugs in asy-mode.el were fixed. Texput files are
removed again. A memory allocation incompatibility in the workaround for
old, broken readline libraries was fixed. The framepoint and truepoint
routines now work even when an exact picture size estimate is unavailable;
a picture scaling bug was fixed. Writing to a file specified with
-o /dir/file.eps is allowed again.  A quarticroots solver was added, the
cubicroots solver was improved, and a complex quadraticroots solver was
added.  A workaround for broken texi2dvi installations was implemented.
Memory leaks were fixed. The garbage collector was update to gc-7.0;
upgrading to gv-3.6.3 is also recommended. A segmentation fault in
complement was fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.32

A recently introduced segmentation fault in subpath was fixed.
The current directory can now be examined with cd() even if globalwrite is
false. The cd path is now only written once in interactive mode.
Further garbage collection improvements and leak fixes were made.

Release Notes for Version 1.31

Garbage collection was dramatically improved, resulting in reduced memory
usage and increased speed. The options -compact and -divisor and the
function purge() were added to give the user more control over garbage
collection. The array virtual member function delete() with no arguments
explicitly deletes all elements of the array.
An interpolate(real[][] f, pen[] palette) function was added for
constructing the pen array needed by the latticeshade routine.
A nullpath frame and picture sizing bug was fixed.
LaTeX diagnostics were improved. A facility that does not rely on
garbage collection finalizers was implemented for closing open files
at the end of each asy process.

Release Notes for Version 1.30

Constructors were added. Routines to allow access to guide
components were added. The three-dimensional projection and contour
routines were optimized. A tickmodifier NoZero and ticklabel format
NoZeroFormat were added. A simplified gouraudshade interface was added.
A linewidth bug was fixed. The array insert and delete routines were
generalized. The new array virtual member "initialized" can be used to
detect whether an element is initialized. All fonts are now automatically
embedded in PDF files. Inline PDF animations now require version 2007/05/24
or later of the animate.sty package. General root solving routines were added.
The implicit initializer for files is null. Boolean arguments 
were added to the image and shading routines to allow one to disable
data buffering. The functionality of the readline routine was split into
the routines history, readline, and saveline. Many fixes were made to 
the Emacs asy-mode.el.

Release Notes for Version 1.29

Support for drawing surfaces described by the null space of real-valued
functions of three variables was added. The dir command now works correctly
for degenerate Bezier paths; an optional final argument can be used to
examine incoming and outgoing tangent directions. Numerical overflow and
precision issues were addressed. A piecewise monotonic spline type and
example were added. Optional fillpen and legend entries were added to
histogram. The "q" command quits in interactive mode only if there is no
top-level variable of that name. Standard input of strings was
fixed. Support for transparent PNG images in xasy was added.  Animation
support was upgraded to use the new animate.sty package rather than the
interim pdfanim_temp.sty package.

Release Notes for Version 1.28

TeX error handling was improved. A dvipsOptions configuration variable was
added. A recently introduced bug in the XDR routine xinput was fixed.
Compilation under the upcoming GCC 4.3 release is now supported. 
Nonglobal PDF animations, where each frame is separately scaled and written
to a file, were implemented. Reading from standard input now works correctly
even in the absence of a working readline library.  A build problem under
Fedora Core 5 was fixed. Parallel builds are now supported.

Release Notes for Version 1.27

A Hermite spline graph interpolate type was added for smoothly joining
sampled functions.  The cycle3, tension3, and curl3 keywords were
respectively renamed cycle, tension, and curl. Assignments no longer write
the value at the prompt.  A bug in longitudinal skeleton detection was
fixed.  The filloutside routine now works with paths that extend beyond the
current boundary. The unit n-point cross function returns a cyclic path.
The "append" argument of the output function was renamed to
"update", which now allows both reads and writes to the data file.
Negative arguments to seek mean relative to the end-of-file; a seekeof
function was added. PDF animations can now be loaded from an external file.
The TeX pipe handshaking was improved. TeXLive 2007 is now supported under
MSWindows. A work around was implemented for a MikTeX bug in handling file
names containing spaces.

Release Notes for Version 1.26

The correct surface normal is now used when calculating lighting; a Klein
bottle example was added.  The front/back detection of the transverse
skeleton of solids of revolution is fixed. A better camera-independent
reference value for resolving path3 orientation is used. A 3D midpoint
routine was added.  Tick values for broken axes can now be autogenerated;
broken logarithmic axes are also supported.  A 2D aligned axes example was
added. A patch that fixes a redisplay bug in gv-3.6.2 is included.

Release Notes for Version 1.25

A new picture size routine, which maps specified user coordinates to a
given final size, provides a convenient way of forcing the plotted
subregion of a graph to have a fixed size. The correct surface
normal is chosen when calculating lighting. The comment character can now be
escaped when reading strings from data files (but is disabled when reading
raw characters with getc). The new word file mode is useful for reading
white space-delimited strings. PostScript output files are now explicitly
designated as EPSF in the header line. The minimum width and height of
flowchart blocks may now be controlled separately. Interpolation and knot
theory modules were added. The usage of path vs. guide in the base files was
standardized.

Release Notes for Version 1.24

Structures now have implicit initializers. PDF animations are supported in
inline tex mode by communicating the texpreamble to LaTeX. The asypreamble
environment was removed in favour of corresponding Asymptote commands in
the asydef environment. Default y tick values were fixed.  The binary space
partition now works correctly for projections from infinity; an arbitrary
target point can be specified for perspective projections.  A 3D version of
the intersectionpoints routine was added.  Unconditional binary logical
operators & and | and bitwise integer functions AND, OR, XOR, and NOT were
defined; the array boolean operators && and || were renamed to & and |.
The PostScript clipping code was fixed. The angle(rotate(x)) routine now
always returns x (mod 360).  User debugging errors are now cleared.
The fontsize package was updated to use fix-cm.sty instead of type1cm.sty.
The Microsoft Windows registry is checked for both GPL and AFPL Ghostscript.
A workaround was implemented for a pdflatex vertical offset bug.
Segmentation faults in the Delaunay triangulation and image codes were fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.23

Microsoft Windows autoconfiguration has been implemented by querying the
registry: Asymptote and the applications it depends on may now be installed in
any location. The shipout command is allowed to write to other directories
if and only if -global is true. An autoimport configuration setting was
added. Importing the Gnu Scientific Library (gsl) now works on all
platforms. A texpreamble environment to contain the LaTeX preamble for
both LaTeX and Asymptote was added to asymptote.sty. A conflict with the
French babel packages was fixed. Background picture sizing in the slide
presentation package was fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.22

Problems with loading LaTeX packages and slide presentations were fixed.
Non-static variables in every loop iteration are now allocated anew.
Formatting under locales with nonperiod decimal separators was fixed,
along with logarithmic tick labels near the machine epsilon.  Concatenation
of nullpaths was fixed. New path markers were added and the perpendicular
symbol in the geometry module was improved. The skeleton routines in the
solids module were split to provide finer control.  Routines to facilitate
drawing 3d contours were added. Reading portable XDR binary data into
arrays works again; functions for reading and writing also in native binary
formats were added. The TeX preamble is no longer output in inline
mode. The TeX pipe is now aware of a previously generated aux file. Memory
leaks were fixed. An inline limit is now imposed on old compilers to speed
up compilation. Setlocale warnings are disabled unless debugging is on. A
colorspace command for extracting the colorspace of a pen was added. An
Asymptote introductory slide presentation was added and a user-written
Asymptote tutorial is now cited in the manual.

Release Notes for Version 1.21

Expressions entered at the interactive prompt are automatically evaluated
and written to stdout. The routine intersectionpoints returns all
intersection points of two paths.  Bounding box computations of paths drawn
with transformed pen nibs were fixed.  Transparency and automatic
colorspace promotion are supported when shading and drawing images.
A grid3 module for drawing 3D grids and a binary tree module were added.
Automatic tick computations were improved: the actual tick value is now
passed to the ticklabel formatting routine, even for logarithmic axes.
A tickmodifier routine gives users complete control over which of the
auto-generated ticks actually get drawn.  The contour drawing and filling
routines were improved.  A --where option makes --listvariables show where
global functions and variables are declared.  Emacs asy-mode was improved,
including function source code lookup.  An optional labelpath interface to
the PSTricks pstextpath macro was implemented for drawing curved labels
along paths.  In inline latex usage, picture are no longer scaled by
default (use \begin{asy}[\the\linewidth] to recover previous default of
scaling to line width).  A texcommand option was added to override the tex
engine command name. The slide presentation module no longer forces
pdflatex; bibliography support was added, figuremattpen was reimplemented,
and the spurious vertical shifting of bullets was fixed. Compilation under
AIX and IRIX systems is supported.

Release Notes for Version 1.20

Explicit yaxis label angles were fixed. Loading and including diagnostics
under the -vv option were improved. The Emacs asy-mode now respects
TeX-electric-sub-and-superscript. The texpath configuration variable and
diagnostics were fixed under MSWindows.  Low-resolution palettes now
display correctly.  A routine to fill cyclic contours was added, along with
the example fillcontour.asy. A command-line option to change the current
working directory was added. The FAQ was updated.

Release Notes for Version 1.19

Bezier surfaces were implemented, along with tensor and Coons patch
shading. The cylinder function was changed to be consistent with the cone
function. The intersect routine now returns an array of two reals.
The unitsize, xunitsize, and yunitsize arguments of shipout have been
replaced with a unitsize function. The seconds() function now works
portably. Minor bugs in inside() were fixed; a winding number routine was
added. The movie bounding box is set to the largest bounding box of all
pictures. Portable high-quality embedded PDF movies are now supported, as
well as portable external movies.  An embedded U3D example was added.
Alignment positioning transformation was fixed; a Rotate(pair) and a
string(real x) routine was added. Flowchart routines and the labelbox and
advection examples now work with pictures as well as frames.
An add(picture pic=currentpicture, drawer d) wrapper was added; a picture
rescaling bug was fixed. Tex error handling was improved. Optional bounds
arguments were added to verbatim postscript and tex commands. Writing to
only the local directory is allowed unless the -global (or -unsafe) option
is specified. A final backslash continues a line on the interactive prompt;
a new multiline option is convenient for cutting and pasting code in
interactive mode. Clipping now sets the true size coordinates to 0. Memory
usage was reduced. The documentation was updated, including a description
of how to produce Debian binaries from RPM binaries.

Release Notes for Version 1.18

A pen caching problem and clipping bugs were fixed. Bugs in interactive
mode and in linemode string reads were fixed. The picture.scale() routine
now guards against division by zero. The drawing of surface meshes was fixed.
The minbound and maxbound functions were implemented also for arrays.
The labelx, labely, xtick, and ytick routines respect the current graph
scaling. The asycolors.sty file was updated to remove the pstricks
dependency. The slide package now works with both latex and pdflatex; the
colordvi dependency was removed. A nativeformat() function returns "eps"
or "pdf", depending on the current tex engine. The pdf() and latex()
functions are now visible. The usepackage and minilatex modules check for
latex mode. Static variable allocation is now discussed in the FAQ.
An image histogram and contour example was added. The diatom example was
modified to illustrate interaction of fixed-sized and scaled coordinates.

Release Notes for Version 1.17

A workaround for a garbage collection bus error under MacOS X was implemented.
A uniform histogram routine was added to the stats module. New frequency
binning routines were added. The argument order of the nonuniform frequency
binning routines was interchanged for consistency (backwards incompatible).
The FAQ was updated. 

Release Notes for Version 1.16

Inline LaTeX mode was fixed. The legend routine was generalized to allow
multiple entries per line; an example was added.  The truepoint
function was renamed framepoint. A function truepoint that works like point
but accounts for fixed-sized objects was added.
The picture.calculateTransform function now returns the actual transform used
for fitting in the case where only an approximate picture size was
available. A 2d frequency binning routine was added to the stats module.
A memory leak was fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.15

Graphics label bounds and incorrect path bounds in latticeshade were
fixed.  The LaTeX color package is now used for the latex and pdflatex engines,
to keep them informed of the current color.  A unitlength of 1pt is now 
enforced in inlinetex mode.  In cases like 2D graphs where only an
approximate picture size estimate is available, the transform is adjusted
so that the fitted frame meets the size specification.  The cube animation
and binary space partition were fixed.  The determinant of a singular
matrix now returns 0 instead of an error.  Temporary pdf files are removed.
The gv patches were removed since these are included in the long-awaited
gv-3.6.2 release. A workaround for a compilation problem under MacOS X
10.3.9 was implemented. A DIN 15 CAD package and new examples were added.

Release Notes for Version 1.14

General affine transforms and clipping may be applied to TeX labels;
bugs in label alignment transformation were fixed.  The TeX engines latex,
pdflatex, tex, and pdftex are supported.  Separate xunitsize and
yunitsize scalings are allowed.  Graph axis bound communication was added
to allow axes with ticks and unextended axes to be called on an empty
picture.  Path labels are drawn after the path (to support UnFill).
Filltype definitions were standardized; a Draw filltype was added (for
drawing a bounding box around a label).  New filloutside routines were
added. Images can be drawn for irregular mesh contours and two-dimensional
pen arrays. Landscape slides automatically enable PDF autorotate option.
A MetaPost buildcycle routine was added. Setlocale errors are ignored.
The "Cannot write to venn_.tex" error under Windows XP was fixed. Very old
readline libraries found on many MacOS X systems are detected. The editing
mode asy-mode.el supports Emacs version 21. The option
\usepackage[inline]{asymptote} is now supported under both latex and pdflatex.


Release Notes for Version 1.13 

Image and contour transposition conventions for matrices were standardized;
resolution arguments were removed from the matrix contour routines.
The bounding box is now correctly calculated for square pen caps.
A bug in drawline was fixed. An up argument was added to the projection
routines to specify the camera orientation. The definition and
documentation of cone was fixed; surface function signatures were
consolidated. New 3d examples were added. Legends and markers are now
allowed when drawing superpaths. Zero page alignment no longer suppresses
labels; bounding box fuzz was removed. Intelligent interactive
auto-completion was added. If scroll is negative, an entire page is
scrolled. Support for Adobe Reader annotations was added.
Write without data arguments now works like write with data arguments.
A list function displays all global functions and variables in a module.
The Emacs asy-mode.el was improved. A FAQ was added.

Release Notes for Version 1.12

PDF transparency was implemented. The documentation of Bezier curves was
improved. Bounding box calculations now account for label scaling.
A special case of the Step calculation in graph.asy was fixed.  The function
scroll(int) was changed to a setting; a quit (q) option was added to the
scroll facility. To avoid an unwanted ghostscript window, gswin32c (rather
than gswin32) is used by default for producing pdf files under MSDOS.

Release Notes for Version 1.11

The defaultformat string is used again for graph tick labelling commands
instead of an empty format string.  A workaround for the broken
libsigsegv-2.3 library that caused a premature exit(1) was implemented.
An extra blank line at the end of 3D array writes was removed; 3D array
transpose and copy functions were added. The realmult routine was moved to
runtime and documented.  The example embeddedmovie of embedding movies
within PDF files was added. Overflow diagnostic messages during mpeg merges
are now suppressed. A twice setting was added to resolve LaTeX references.
The settings module is now globally accessible.  Duplicate trace messages
were pruned. Debugger breakpoints can now be set using a matching substring
instead of a line number. Conditional breakpoints are now supported.
Runtime errors and interrupts no longer reset the interactive environment.

Release Notes for Version 1.10

Parametric surfaces were implemented and parametric graphs now respect
picture scaling. Fill and FillDraw now work for markers and superpaths.
A bug in reading strings from files was fixed. Support for MikTeX 2.5 and
Autoconf > 2.59 was added. Asymptote and output filenames can now contain
spaces. Interrupts are working again. A line-based debugger was implemented.

Release Notes for Version 1.09

The workaround for the gv-3.6.1 option handling bug now supports earlier
versions of gv, including gv-3.5.8. By default, Ghostscript version 8.54 is
used by the MSWindows version to produce PDF files.

Release Notes for Version 1.08

Resolution problems in the contour routines were fixed; null contour labels
are now suppressed. Configuration problems were fixed; the malloc
configuration checks were removed and the help command again knows the
correct location of the manual. In the slides package, some stepping bugs
were fixed, an institution field was added to the titlepage, and vbox
support (say for aligned equations) was added. A colorless(pen) function
that strips pen color attributes was added. A clean copy of the source
files is now shipped.

Release Notes for Version 1.07 

This release implements uniform and irregular mesh contour drawing
algorithms: contours can be individually labelled or filled using a
colour density palette. The flowchart interface and alignment were
improved.  A slope fields package was added. The arrow size limiting code
was fixed.  Some bugs in makepen were fixed.  Image and shading functions
now respect the -gray, -rgb, -cmyk, and -bw options.  Date arithmetic routines
were added. Several small bugs in the graph routines were fixed. Custom
three-dimensional projections can now be easily constructed.

The public keyword is now the default permission modifer.  A new keyword,
restricted, makes variables readable but not writeable outside the
structure in which they are defined (previous this was the default behaviour).
A user-transparent work around for the backwards-incompatible command-line
options of gv-3.6.1 was implemented. Various configuration problems were
addressed to better support the Asymptote rpm for the Fedora Core Extras
project. A cputime() function was added.

Release Notes for Version 1.06

General flowchart routines and an example were added. Papersizes other than
letter now work with -outformat pdf again.  Performance was improved by
avoiding unnecessary output flushing.  An asycolors.sty package was added
to make LaTeX aware of CMYK versions of predefined Asymptote colours.
The default pdf viewer for MacOS is now "open".  The -u option can now be
specified multiple times on the command line.  Optional x and y margin
arguments were added to Fill. A reverse video option was added to
slide.asy; titlepage and title by default call newslide, unless the
currentpicture is empty.  An argument was added to newslide to allow
stepping to be turned off for that slide. The slidedemo example now
generates any required eps files. A segmentation fault in eval was fixed.

Release Notes for Version 1.05

Shaded and skeletal representations of surfaces of rotation were
implemented.  New oblique projections were added and bugs in the 3D graph
routines were fixed.  An argument reversal in one of the add routines was
fixed.  A clipping margin was added to unfill.  General determinants were
added.  Sin, Cos, Tan, aSin, aCos, and aTan, which use degrees, are now
built-in functions. The dash adjustment algorithm was improved. The
cubicroots solver now works again when R=0. Internal operations are now
added for all variable declarations of new arrays and functions. Automatic
viewing can easily be turned off under MSDOS. Nonstandard paper sizes
are now correctly handled. The C locale is always used when producing
postscript patterns. Configuration problems were fixed. The editor
customization files asy.vim and asy-mode.el were moved to the Asymptote
system directory. Stepping of slide presentations can now be enabled from
the command line. Many new tests were implemented. The examples were moved
to the examples subdirectory of the documentation directory. 
RPM files are now released.

Release Notes for Version 1.04

A convenient presentation slide package was developed.  The misalignment of
TeX and PostScript layers was fixed by giving includegraphics the exact
bounding box. The overall bounding box was also fixed. The tension atleast
command and the clipping of remote labels by unfill near the frame boundary
were fixed.  Permission checking for types was added. The new point-like
truepoint function uses the actual current picture size. Locale support,
the ', I, and F format specifiers, and custom pagewidth and pageheight
settings were added.  A Ticks specifier draws ticks on both sides of the path;
format="%" also suppress tick labels for logarithmic axis.
The linetype adjustment to the arclength was improved and can now be
optionally disabled. Color names were systematized, including texcolors
and x11colors.  A general purpose user command-line option accepts arbitrary
Asymptote code as a string. All duplicate path points in three.asy are now
removed. A convenient fixedscaling picture sizing routine was added.
Selected special functions from the GNU scientific library, DESTDIR support,
and a Python module to access Asymptote commands were added.
The legend skip is now based on the actual legend entry height, not the
fontsize.  A backwards incompatibility was introduced in attach, add, and
legends (add and attach take arguments in the same order as label):

attach(point(E),legend(20E),UnFill) -> attach(legend(),point(E),20E,UnFill). 

Release Notes for Version 1.03

Support was added for compiling under gcc-4.1.0. A memory leak in
interactive mode was fixed. A procedure for using CJK fonts was documented.
The return type of the three-dimensional intersectionpoint routines was
fixed. A function for inverting 2D points projected from 3D back onto a
specified plane was added, along with a solid geometry package with
routines to draw cylinders. New xaxis(triple,real), min(guide3[]), and
max(guide3[]) convenience functions were added. A Degrees function like
degrees(pair), except that it returns 0 for a (0,0) argument rather than
generating an error, was added. Interactive mode (without command-line
editing or history) now works even in the absence of the GNU readline
library.  An upper limit (100000) on the number of calls to intersectcubics
per cubic segment was imposed on the intersection routines.  The
documentation was updated.

Release Notes for Version 1.02

Lighting was implemented for surfaces described by functions and matrices.
A bug in the positioning of axis labels was fixed.  The type of randMax was
fixed. Configuration and diagnostics were improved; the "dir" setting in
configuration files is respected. Under MSDOS, the configuration file is
now %USERPROFILE%/.asy/config.asy; configuration settings now work as
documented.  On UNIX systems, installation can optionally be performed
without root privileges. Errors thrown by the parser while reading the
configuration file are now handled gracefully.  The patches to pstoedit
were removed since they are now included in pstoedit-3.44.

Release Notes for Version 1.01

A bug in the surface plot of a matrix was fixed. A workaround was
implemented for the broken GNU readline/history library under MacOS.

Release Notes for Version 1.00

A pen bounds error was fixed. A bug in the linear equations solver was
fixed.  Images now transform properly and nonsquare images appear
correctly.  The legend argument of draw accepts a Label.  An interface to
the movie15 package for embedding movies, sounds, and 3D objects within a
PDF file was added.  A bug where nonsolid pen types were ignored was fixed.
Missing xpart, ypart, and zpart functions were re-added.  A segmentation
fault in format was fixed. An interface to the GNU readline function was
added to allow editing of input. A complement function was added.  A bug in
the 2D graph tick selection routines was fixed; xlimits and ylimits no
longer crop data by default. For consistency, the "includegraphics"
labeling function was renamed to "graphic".

Release Notes for Version 0.99

A bus error and compilation error under MacOS X were fixed. If -debug is
set, execution continues after the first error. The "make check" code was
fixed. The contributed MacOS X binary site is now mentioned in the
documentation.

Release Notes for Version 0.98

Command-line options and configuration variables were reorganized into an
Asymptote settings module, allowing default values to be set in
~/.asy/config.asy (~/.asy/options is obsolete).  Command-line options 
can be negated by prepending -no to the option name.  Type-dependent
function and record operators are now added to the parent record.
Execution stops after the first error in a runnable.  Two- and
three-dimensional array min/max functions for all ordered builtin types
were implemented. Comments are now allowed within 3d data blocks. The base
file plain.asy was split into many subfiles.  The currentpen nib is
respected.  Warning messages are suppressed when shipping out an empty
picture. The tick computation was fixed when xaxis and yaxis are called
with explicit limits. The -t option was removed as it is no longer needed
for generating inline tex files. Machine constants are now implemented as
variables rather than functions.

Release Notes for Version 0.97

An uninitialized pen transform bug was fixed. A workaround was added for a
readline incompatibility under MacOS X 10.4.3. Incorrect and missing names
for builtin function arguments were fixed. Duplicate functions were removed.

Release Notes for Version 0.96

A MetaPost-style makepen function allows the default pen nib to be changed
to any polygonal (possibly nonconvex) cyclic path.  A unitsize argument was
added to the shipout command.  Three-dimensional lighting effects were
added and illustrated with the Gouraud shading of a sphere. The MidArrow
attribute was fixed.  Builtin functions now have named arguments.  Brackets
are now part of the quote syntax. The write command was generalized
to allow writing a list of vectors as columns. Drawing to standard output
now works even when there are no labels.  The -noView command was replace
by -nView or -no View. Several segmentation faults were fixed. Custom axis
types were documented.

Release Notes for Version 0.95

A memory leak was fixed; garbage collection messages are now suppressed
unless the -d option is given. In interactive mode, a reset keyword was
implemented to restore the environment, except for the scroll setting.
The interactive input command now does an automatic reset.  A link was
added to the GNU readline library documentation for customizing interactive
key bindings. A hang in scroll mode on an end-of-file condition was
fixed. To reduce LaTeX memory usage, the scalebox macro is used only where
required. A legend problem was fixed. The documentation was updated.

Release Notes for Version 0.94

A label bug arising from a conflict between some versions of the LaTeX
pstricks and graphicx packages was fixed. Embedded LaTeX files are always
run in quiet (-noView) mode. Frame loading issues with imported types
(for example, with the triangle SAS constructor in the geometry module) was
fixed. The command import graph is now an abbreviation for access graph;
unravel graph.

Release Notes for Version 0.93

The import scheme was completely redesigned, with new keywords access,
unravel, from, and include. A true (rather than emulated) interactive mode
and runtime imports have been implemented. The default pdf browser is now
acroread; the pdf fuzz workaround for gv was removed.  The tension3 and
curl3 keywords were re-added; a surface graph routine for matrices was
implemented. Problems with csv mode were fixed. The function defaultpen()
was renamed to resetdefaultpen().  Integer division via quotient(int,int)
is now consistent with the modulo (%) operator.  Checks for integer
overflow and erf, erfc, and gamma functions were added.  More descriptive
names latticeshade, axialshade, radialshade, and gouraudshade for the
shading routines were chosen.  Horizontal and vertical label scaling was
implemented.  Default command line style-parameters can now be stored in
~/.asy/options.  The interactive history file is now ~/.asy/history by
default unless -localhistory is specified. Outputting to standard output
via "-o -" is now allowed.


Release Notes for Version 0.92

Clipping now clips labels and all layers of a picture, not just the most
recent one. A bug in precontrol and postcontrol was fixed.  A ticklabel bug
and precision errors at +/-1e-4 were fixed.  An example of a "broken" x
axis was added.  A dot product now requires explicit pair arguments.
The implicit cast from real to pen was removed. Straight flags are now
preserved when using a path as part of a guide. An UnFill filltype was
added for clipping underneath labels and legends. A struct marker was added
to support arbitrary marker locations. Directories are no longer stripped
from explicit output filenames. 

A function inside was implemented to test whether a point is inside a
cyclic path.  The routines inside, quadratic solver, and intersect in
math.asy were replaced by internal C++ routines. A robust real cubic root
solver was added. A floating point exception in complex powers when base is
zero was fixed.  Colinearity checks were added to the leastsquares routine.

The interface to plane was changed to return a representation of the plane
through point O with normal cross(u,v).  The routine intersectionpoint was
moved to plain.asy and a 3d version was added to three.asy. We now draw
over existing TeX layers when doing 3d hidden surface removal. A 3d aspect
ratio can now be specified. A gui() function and MSWindows support for xasy
was added; this will require renaming "gui(" to "GUI(" in any existing .gui
files.  The dir argument of picture.fit() was moved to add(frame,pair)
and attach(frame,pair): 

add(pic.fit(E)) -> add(pic.fit(),E).

Release Notes for Version 0.91

Fixed GUI transforms: grouping should not depend on deconstruct flag.

Release Notes for Version 0.90

Default function arguments are now evaluated in the scope where the
function is defined, not in the scope of the caller.  The depth handling
of deferred TeX labels was fixed.  The positioning of 3d axes labels was
improved; an example showing tick and axis label rotation was added.
A minimum value of fuzz in the intersect routines is enforced to prevent
infinite loops. An error in the man page regarding the -t option was
fixed. The write function was generalized to handle an arbitrary number of
data values.

Release Notes for Version 0.89

The processing of GUI files was fixed.  User-specified ticks now work also
with logarithmic axes. The arguments of LeftTicks and RightTicks were
standardized; it is now possible to include a general string(real) routine
to typeset each label.  Logarithmic axes ranges of less than a decade are no
longer upscaled when autoscaling is disabled.  All references to the
mailing list were removed from the documentation since the forum is now
used in its place.  The temporary included PostScript file suffix was
renamed from "ps" to "eps".

Release Notes for Version 0.88

The graph routines were overhauled to support both two- and three-
dimensional axes, partitioning them uniformly in tick value space,
not with respect to arclength. An empty format string is treated as
defaultformat. A fuzz parameter was added to the intersect routines;
these routines now work for points. Data file comments were implemented.
The perpendicular routine now uses an alignment argument; scale(pair) was
removed.  An option was added to asymptote.sty to make all LaTeX symbols
visible, along with a second optional string to Label for providing a size
estimate for undefined labels.  Numerous small bugs were fixed; the
pstoedit patch was updated. The installation and instructions were
improved. An environment variable for every external command was added.

The argument order of the axes routines was standardized; a call like
xaxis(min,max,"$x$",red,Bottom,LeftTicks);
should now be written
xaxis("$x$",Bottom,min,max,red,LeftTicks);

Release Notes for Version 0.87

This release implements general hidden surface removal using a binary space
partition and adds three-dimensional versions of the standard path
functions (arclength, subpath, intersect, etc.), along with circle and arc
functions. Hidden surfaces in regular mesh surface plots now are properly
handled from any camera location.  The arclength rather than the length is
used for determining default label position on paths; Relative(real) and
Relative(pair) functions were added for labelling paths relative to the
total arclength and local path direction.  Structure constructors and
operators == and != were implemented and documented. The permissions of
static functions within structures was fixed. A pen argument to filltype
Fill to specify an interior pen distinct from the boundary pen was added.
For convenience, array push members now return the pushed element.
A missing shift in Label.out(frame) was added. The feynman module was
updated to include a new function texshipout; MidArrow was moved to
plain.asy. The optional position arguments of BeginArrow and related
functions were fixed. A numerically robust quadratic equation solver was
added.

Release Notes for Version 0.86

Fixed make man problems.

Release Notes for Version 0.85

A fully three-dimensional, rotationally invariant, generalization of the
two-dimensional MetaPost path construction algorithms has been
implemented. A tridiagonal solver was added. Adobe's automatic rotation of
PDF files was disabled. Cyclic indices are now allowed only on arrays
having the virtual cyclic flag set to true. The bug fix in simplex was
generalized. An online help option was added to interactive mode; exit is
now a synonym for quit. Microsoft Windows resource fields and an icon were
added. ASYMPTOTE_DIR can now be a list of directories. 

Since some files were moved in this release, Microsoft users may wish to
first uninstall the previous release to avoid duplicate files.

Release Notes for Version 0.84

This release ports Asymptote to the Microsoft Windows operating system; an
executable file is distributed. Label parameters are now in a structure
called Label, to which strings are implicitly cast, and which can be
rotated and shifted with a transform. Automatic sizing under picture
transformation was fixed. A bug in the simplex method was fixed. Lattice
and Gouraud shading were added. An array append method, virtual transform
components, and transform 6-tuple notation were added. A pen and filltype
were added to legend.  The 2d graph and palette code were cleaned up.
An extend option was added to draw ticks across the graph for producing a
grid. Problems with nullguide3 were fixed, the arguments of 3d rotate were
swapped, and 3d reflections were added.  A spurious papersize comment
inserted by newer versions of dvips was removed.  Pstoedit support was updated.

This release introduces a few minor backward incompatibilities. Here is a
summary of the main changes:

draw("text",(0,0)--(1,1),1.0)   ->      draw(Label("text",1.0),(0,0)--(1,1))
label("text",90,(0,0))          ->      label(rotate(90)*"text",(0,0))
labeldot("text",(0,0))          ->      dot("text",(0,0))
labeldot((0,0))                 ->      dot(Label,(0,0))
labelbox(2mm,2mm,"text",(0,0))  ->      box(Label("text",(0,0)),2mm,2mm)
xaxis("$x$",0.5)                ->      xaxis(Label("$x$",0.5))
labelxtick(1)                   ->      xtick(Label,1)

Release Notes for Version 0.83

This release extends Asymptote to three dimensions. A triple type (which
replaces the old vector type in math.asy) and a guide3 type were added,
along with the 3D projection routines in three.asy.  Three-dimensional
arrays can now be read in line mode, using blank lines as block
delimiters. An array pop function was added.  Math mode ($ delimiters) were
moved to within the "defaultformat" string, to allow use of non-math mode
fonts in tick labels (by overriding the default format). A pticklabel
option for drawing tick labels with a different pen was added. Routines
labelxtick and labelytick were added, and the tick size and shift in xtick
were fixed.  The autoscaling of unextended axes was fixed.  The xline and
yline routines were renamed to xequals and yequals, Dot was renamed to dot,
Cross was renamed to cross, the function "Angle(pair)" was renamed to
"degrees(pair)", and a "Degrees(pair)" function was added to math.asy.  The
Metapost --- operator and the replacement :: for the MetaPost ...  operator
were implemented. A segmentation fault involving controls points with
direction specifiers and a bug in "string font(pen)" were fixed. Tensions
in straight sections of paths are now handled as in MetaPost. The -l option
was reimplemented.

Release Notes for Version 0.82

Initializers for structures and general cast operators can be specified.
Functions can be called with named (keyword) arguments, in any order.
Rest arguments are supported.  Size and aspect ratio arguments, which may
be specified with "size", were removed from "shipout".  The tick routines
were standardized; custom tick locations and arrows on axes were implemented.
The default frame initializer nullframe was renamed to newframe. A segmentation
fault in the file garbage collection code and an optimization-related bug
in fill were fixed.

Unlike in the C and C++ languages, an assignment in a function argument is
now interpreted as an assignment to a parameter of the same name in the
function signature, not within the local scope. The command-line option -d
may be used to check Asymptote code for cases where a named function
argument may be mistaken for a local assignment.

Release Notes for Version 0.81

A guide solver bug was fixed, allowing the construction of graphs with a single
data point. Compilation under g++-4.0.0 is now supported.

Release Notes for Version 0.80

A segmentation fault on the alpha (cxx) and mac platforms was fixed.
All members of the picture structure are now deep copied.
The latest Boehm garbage collector (version 6.5) is used by default.

Release Notes for Version 0.79

Types are now cached to speed up parsing. All outstanding garbage collection
issues were addressed. The autoscaling of scaled axes was fixed.
Another example of a secondary axis was added to the documentation.
A Pythagorean tree example illustrates picture transforms.

Release Notes for Version 0.78

A binary search routine was added for sorted arrays. The handling of NAN
values was fixed. The "checkaxis" test in graph.asy was improved.
A problem with implicit closing of files was fixed. Minor changes were made
to support compilation under Cygwin. A workaround for the garbage
collection warning about repeated allocation of very large
blocks was introduced, along with other miscellaneous garbage collection
updates. A configuration option was added to request use of a (slower,
multi-theaded) system version of the Boehm garbage collector.

Release Notes for Version 0.77

Integer arguments are now converted to real values before dividing and a real
quotient is returned. The "quotient(int, int)" function returns the integer
part of that result. Garbage collection has been implemented to fix memory
leaks.  A knot solving bug was fixed. Pen "plabel" vs. "p" issues were
addressed. The eval function was renamed to map and the new eval(string)
function was documented. The concat function can be used to concatenate two
arrays. Complex exponential and logarithmic functions were added. The new
function reltime can be used to compute the label position argument for draw.
A new geometry module includes a triangle structure and functions to draw
interior arcs of triangles and perpendicular symbols.


Release Notes for Version 0.76

Installation has been simplified by removing the last remaining dependency
on the boost header files. A "plabel" argument was added to "draw" to allow
labels and legends to use a different pen than the curve itself. The pen
arguments in the axes routines were rearranged to be consistent with
"draw".  TeX errors in interactive mode and the TeX preamble are now
handled properly.  New functions "getstring" and "getreal" can get and
remember user parameters.  Marker frame arrays, a "Mark(int)" function,
and "node", "value", and "slope" path computation functions were added.
Problems with implicit scaling were addressed.  The "without side-effect"
warning was removed.  An option was added to list all loaded global
functions. The documentation of structures was improved.


Release Notes for Version 0.75

This release fixes a number of bugs with the new parser controller,
including a segmentation fault with the -p option, problems with
interactive mode, and problems reading from standard input. The graph
module now uses a better default value of axislabelmargin for positioning
axis labels. The put argument of the axis routines was moved to the end of
the argument list, for consistency with draw. Convenient xline and yline
interfaces to the axis routines were added.  The definition of the
correlation coefficient in the least squares routine was fixed, and a fit
function was added to the 'linefit' structure. A linear interpolation (with
endpoint extrapolation) and a binary search routine were added to math.asy.


Release Notes for Version 0.74

This release fixes a segmentation fault in version 0.73 and also reduces
the default number of colors in image palettes to work around
PostScript/PDF limitations (that can cause the manual not to print).


Release Notes for Version 0.73

A more efficient type-safe union was used to speed up the virtual machine
by roughly a factor of 5. New routines "ellipse" and "labelellipse"
were added for drawing ovals around frames and labels. The function
"bbox(frame)" was renamed "box(frame)". These routines now prepend to
the frame for filling with a background color; they also return the boundary
as a guide. A workaround was added for a bug in gcc version 3.3 to
facilitate compilation under Darwin (MacOS). Many internal coding
improvements were made.

 LocalWords:  autogenerated
